---
title: OpenEMR Announces Initial Availability of OpenEMR Cloud on AWS
author:
  name: Matthew Vita
  twitter: matthewvita
date: '2017-08-15'
slug: openemr-announces-initial-availability-of-openemr-cloud-on-aws
aliases:
  - /blog/post/openemr-announces-initial-availability-of-openemr-cloud-on-aws
images:
  - images/OpenEMR_Cloud.png
coverImage: images/OpenEMR_Cloud.png
---
OpenEMR has joined with industry leading Amazon Web Services to implement and deliver OpenEMR Cloud to healthcare provider practices and institutions throughout the world
<!--more-->

[Setup Guide](https://github.com/openemr/openemr-devops/tree/master/packages/full_stack#openemr-cloud-full-stack)
[CloudFormation Template](https://github.com/openemr/openemr-devops/blob/master/packages/full_stack/assets/OpenEMR.json)

OpenEMR Cloud Full Stack, a cloud service version of
[OpenEMR](http://open-emr.org) - the most popular open source electronic health
record (EHR) and medical practice management solution, is available for the
5.0.0.5 release of OpenEMR. OpenEMR has joined with industry leading [Amazon Web
Services](https://aws.amazon.com) (AWS) to implement and deliver OpenEMR Cloud
to healthcare provider practices and institutions throughout the world. In a few
simple steps, healthcare providers can leverage the benefits of OpenEMR and AWS
by deploying OpenEMR Cloud Full Stack.

Cloud technologies have become a staple in technology and business over the past
decade, and the healthcare industry is no exception. As a web platform, OpenEMR
makes a seamless transition to the cloud, enabling many benefits including:

#### Automatic Scaling of Computational Resources

Computational resources such as servers, memory, bandwidth, and storage
automatically scale based on patient load and provider demand. During peak
demand, computational resources are automatically dedicated for optimal delivery
of healthcare by OpenEMR Cloud Full Stack. During non-peak hours, computational
resources are automatically relaxed, resulting in minimized costs.

<center>![](/images/openemrCloud.png)</center>

#### Cutting-edge Information Security

Superior information security including physical, network, and software security
is designed into OpenEMR and AWS, offloading significant privacy and security
demands on healthcare providers. OpenEMR Cloud Full Stack is fully compliant with HIPAA
Privacy and Security Rules.

#### Zero On-Site Hardware and Software

OpenEMR Cloud Full Stack runs hardware and software provided by OpenEMR and
Amazon Web Services; no on-site software, servers nor related equipment are
required.

#### Easy Deployment

With only a few simple steps including specification of OpenEMR Cloud Full
Stack's [CloudFormation
template](https://github.com/openemr/openemr-devops/blob/master/packages/full_stack/assets/OpenEMR.json),
healthcare providers "spin up" their own full stack instance of OpenEMR in the
cloud. Customizations are tested and deployed with ease with OpenEMR Cloud's
continuous deployment model.

#### Robust Backup and Recovery Solutions

Automated backups, disaster recovery, and system redundancy are standard in
OpenEMR Cloud Full Stack, fine tuned for clinic and institutional needs.

Before OpenEMR Cloud, OpenEMR users deployed software on physical servers or
contracted a professional vendor to provide private cloud or managed on-site
solutions. "OpenEMR Cloud provides a modern option for healthcare providers to
leverage the cloud on their own terms, with limited maintenance burden and low
cost", says Matthew Vita, an OpenEMR Administrator.

"OpenEMR is a natural fit for the cloud", notes Dr. Andre Millet, Chief Medical
Officer of OEMR. "With OpenEMR Cloud, establishing a hospital EHR takes only a
few simple steps. We are reducing the distance between clinician and technology,
providing tools that diminish repetitive tasks and bureaucratic procedures,
allowing more time for providers to excel at what they do best", says Millet. He
believes lowering barriers for EHR deployment encourages better utilization,
especially in modern areas of healthcare such as telemedicine, practice
analytics and clinical intelligence. During implementation testing, Millet was
impressed with the ease of setup and adaption of OpenEMR functionality through
source code changes instantly reflected in OpenEMR Cloud instances.

OpenEMR Cloud simplifies OpenEMR management and provides peace of mind. "An
on-premise EHR represents unpredictable, front-loaded capital expenditures.
Initial server purchase and deployment, on-going warranties, parts replacement,
and physical security, are compounded by often-overlooked backup and restore
protocols", says Asher Densmore-Lynn, an OpenEMR contributor and cloud
architect. The financial benefit of OpenEMR Cloud is significant, transforming
capital expenditures into lower equivalent operating expense. Operating expense
is further reduced as computational resources are matched to time-varying
workloads." He adds that clinics and institutions achieve additional savings
through reduction of in-house expertise in IT architecture, vendor management,
systems setup, disaster recovery, and hardware scaling. "All of these tasks
become more manageable, predictable, and testable with OpenEMR Cloud",
Densmore-Lynn notes.

"We want to ensure that cost is reasonable and proportional to an institution's
EHR utilization", notes Daniel Ehrlich, an OpenEMR contributor and cloud
solutions engineer. He notes that lower capital and operating expense for
clinics and institutions are a differentiating feature of OpenEMR Cloud.

OpenEMR Cloud is designed for 1-click deployment by provider or institution
staff. OpenEMR software is configurable with an array of clinical options,
either by IT staff or certified, professional support vendors. OpenEMR's
software model (GNU Public License) has fostered a vast array of clinical
capabilities including a modern user interface. Custom features are easily
developed and implemented to meet the needs and demands of practices and
institutions.

OpenEMR Full Stack is 100% HIPAA compliant for covered entities, requiring only
a few extra clicks during deployment. Covered entities are assured of compliance
by OpenEMR's federally certified software, HIPAA compliant cloud services, and
AWS's Business Associate services.

The OpenEMR Community's choice of industry leading AWS is a testament to AWS
leadership in cloud technology and total cost of application ownership. To get
started with OpenEMR Cloud Full stack, please visit its [Setup
Guide](https://github.com/openemr/openemr-devops/tree/master/packages/full_stack#openemr-cloud-full-stack).

#### About OpenEMR

OpenEMR supports a broad feature set of patient demographics, records, appointments, prescriptions,
billing, reports, clinical decision support, lab integration, analytics and
clinical intelligence. For United States providers, OpenEMR Cloud is designed
for HIPAA & HITECH compliance. AWS performs the HIPAA Business Associate role
for healthcare providers using OpenEMR Cloud.

Downloaded more than 6,000 times per month, the OpenEMR user base is estimated
to be greater that 100,000 medical providers serving more than 200 million
patients. OpenEMR is translated into 33 languages and used by facilities in more
than 100 countries. A leading operator of the open-source software business
model, OpenEMR has changed the world for the better. For more information please
visit the [OpenEMR website](http://www.open-emr.org).
